In the last lectures we set up react native navigation,
now we've got a broken app where we just see a splash screen. That's normal because react native navigation
has its own way of rendering screens, well to the screen.
It consists of two main parts, two main things we have to do, we have to register some screens and then
we have to start an app so to say and that can be confusing because we can't even start an app if we already
have a running one
but an app simply means you have to tell react native navigation what to display, you programmatically
load something, you no longer declare your starting component as we previously did in our index file.
So why don't we do that?
Let's make it simple,
let's simply remove all that redux related code from our index.android file,
don't need the provider in there anymore,
let's just import our app here and let's render app again.
This is the setup we had earlier in this course and I'm going to copy this and paste it into my iOS
file too. Now app
on the other hand is also not what we can load, app is our app container,
now what I will do is in my source folder, I'll create a new folder which I'll name screens,
screens will just be components but components
we load through navigation not components
we include as part of our jsx code. And there, I want to start this application with an authentication
screen where the user has to sign up or sign in, we'll add this functionality later in the course,
I already want to add the screen.
So I'll add a new subfolder in screens and I'll just name it auth and in there I'll add an Auth.js
file, my authentication screen.
Now screens basically are just containers,
so first of all, they are react components and typically they are stateful components,
so in a web based app, we would have called them containers and in web based apps,
screens are typically what you would have loaded with the router.
So here, I will simply import react and component because I plan on creating a class based component
from react and then I create my class and I'll name it auth screen, that's optional,
you could name it just auth
but since it represents a screen here, I want to name it as such.
So then I extend my component here,
I have a render function,
so this is just a normal react component, that's important
and then I export as a default, auth screen just like that.
Now this auth screen will be brand new,
I won't reuse an existing component for that,
we will rewrite quite a lot of our application to be honest and just to see how we can load it,
let's start very simple, let's simply import a view and a text from react native and let's render that.
So I'll render a view here and we might view text, I'll output a text where I say auth screen and we'll work on
the content of that screen later but for now, I just want to hear something on the screen
and that's text I'll have.
So this is my auth screen and the goal now is to load this through react native navigation, to achieve
this,
I'm actually going to go to my app.js file and remove all the code that's in there,
yep it's all gone now.
We as I said, we'll rewrite a lot of parts of our application,
now we're getting serious and we're diving into our well, our app as it should look at the end,
so we're going to rewrite a lot of that. In app.js
.
I won't render any component,
instead here I will do the two things I mentioned, register screens and start an application for react
native navigation.
Therefore I first of all will import something from react native navigation and that something is an
object called navigation with a capital N though.
Now the first step is to as I said, register some screens because when using react native navigation,
we load screens by an ID which we assign and we can only load screens which we registered in advance,
so before we try to load them basically.
So therefore here I want to do just that with navigation
and then there is a register component method I can call.
Now one important thing, you have to register a component before you can load it through react native navigation,
you can't load other components,
you can load other components as part of the jsx code of the screens you're loading but you can't
load them directly through react native navigation,
so we want to register a new component here,
so a component which we can load from navigation. Let's import it, I'll name it auth screen and import it
from source screens auth,
so from that file. The register component method we're calling here takes at least two arguments,
the first argument is a unique identifier of that screen
and you can choose any you want,
just make sure it's unique,
I'm going to use awesome-places.AuthScreen and that's a typical pattern,
you have something like your app name then a dot and then the screen name and this should be unique.
The second argument here is a function,
so here this is an arrow function in my case where you simply return the auth screen,
it's essentially the function react native navigation will execute when it actually needs to load your
screen,
you might recall this pattern from the index.js file where you also executed this code
as a function here for registering a component.
So back in our app.js file, we registered our component here, navigation register a component,
the next step is to start an app and again, this can be confusing the app of course has started, this is simply
an app for react native navigation so to say. Here when you visit react native navigation, you can
visit the top level API guide and there you find two different ways of starting an app,
a tab based app so an application with tabs at the bottom or a single screen app where the full screen
is just one screen.
It's what I want to use for the auth screen,
we'll also implement tabs later,
but obviously, the auth screen should be one single full screen screen.
For that I'll reach out to navigation and there, I'll start a single screen app, so execute this command.
Now as you see, there are a lot of options you can pass through it, definitely read through them and style it and configure
it whichever way you want to use it,
I'll use a very basic set up here so I will execute this method, pass a javascript object and the one
thing we definitely have to pass is the screen configuration where we say which screen to load.
Now screen just is another javascript object where you configure which screen to load and which title
it has in the nav bar and so on.
So inside screen, there is another screen property and here, you use your unique identifier,
so in this case of the only screen we have
and then I'll also add a title property here and say login,
so this should be displayed in the nav bar which will automatically be added by this library.
Now with that we got everything in place,
how do we proceed?
Super simple, let's go back to index.ios,
we no longer need to use app registry, react native navigation will do that for us,
we just need to import app
and of course, we could have run that code in that file for this reason
but since we have two different entry points, to not duplicate our code, I outsourced it.
So we just import app here
and why is this enough, why don't we have to do anything else?
Because in app, we instantly run all our code and we execute this code which will just load a screen.
So with that, make sure to save all files and then if you reload your applications, already worked here for
iOS,
we see the auth screen,
it's great, for Android it seems to be stuck,
so simply let's clear it here and let's try restarting the app.
It still doesn't like you, try rebuilding it
and you should eventually also see auth screen there
and as you see, you get this nav bar with login for free in the respective style of the platform you're
running this on,
so that's even more than you get from most native components, you get styling which adapts to the platform
you're running it on,
great.
So we started a single screen app,
we have a single screen,
now obviously we could continue working on the auth screen but I want to postpone this and dive deeper
into navigation,
so let's now see how we can leave that screen to move on in the app and possibly go to a tab based navigation
once we did successfully login.
So let's see how that works in the next lectures.